4
Select the main macroeconomic indicators.
a.	Inflation and Deflation
b.	Economic Cycle 
c.	Unemployment
d.	Uses of National Income Data 
0,1,2,3
4
What does GDP measure?
a.  It measures long run aggregate supply 
b.	It measures the value of economic activity within a country. 
c.	It measures the exchange rate systems. 
d.	It measures market and government failure. 
1
4
_________ is a measure of inflation published monthly by the Office for National Statistics. 
a.	Consumer Price and Retail Price Indices (CPI/RPI)
b.	Investment
c.	Aggregate Demand 
d.	National Income Data 
0
6
Select all factors that help determine the current stage of the economic cycle. 
a.	GDP
b.	Interest rates
c.	Supply and demand
d.	Levels of employment and consumer spending 
e.	Fiscal policy 
f.	Uses of national income data 
0,1,3
4
Which one of the equations below best represents Aggregate Demand?
a.	Consumption + Investment + Government Spending + Net Exports
b.	Consumption + Government Spending 
c.	Natural Rate of Output + (Actual Price Level – Expected Price Level)
d.	Investment + Natural Rate of Output + Government Spending
0
5
Select all of the main causes of shifts in aggregate supply. 
a.	Changes in production costs
b.	Commodity prices
c.	Exchange rates 
d.	Government taxation and subsidies 
e.	Price of imports 
0,1,2,3,4
4
If the Phillips Curve is vertical in the long run, then an increase in the money supply from year to year will _________ the unemployment rate and will _________ inflation rate.
a.	Increase : increase 
b.	Increase : not change 
c.	Not change : increase 
d.	Not change : not change 
2
4
The life cycle theory on consumption can be summarized by saying that consumption decisions are based  
a.	On permanent income rather than current income 
b.	On current income rather than permanent income 
c.	On an individual’s highest expected annual income 
d.	Only on current income 
0
4
Those holding the classical view of the labour market are likely to believe that  
a.	Monetary and fiscal policy have a substantial effect on output and employment in both the short run and the long run 
b.	Monetary and fiscal policy have some effect on output and employment in both the short run and long run 
c.	Monetary and fiscal policy have little or no effect on output and employment in the short run and long run 
d.	Monetary and fiscal policy have some effect on output and employment in the short run but not in the long run 
2
4
Which of the following statement is correct?
a.	The money supple does not play a role in sustained inflation 
b.	The Fed is “accommodating” when they decrease the money supply after the government has increased G 
c.	Inflation initiated by an increase in aggregate demand is referred to as demand- pull inflation 
d.	In order to avoid “crowding-out” after the government has increased G, the Fed often decreases the money supply in order to lower the interest rates 
2
4
A bond is 
a.	A document that promise to pay back a loan under specified terms over a specified period of time 
b.	A promise to pay back a loan over an unspecified period 
c.	Allows the firm to access funds with more liabilities 
d.	The only way a firm can raise funds 
0
4
Keynes, the father of macro- economic policy stressed that:
a.	As the economy was operating at full capacity (in his time), expansionary fiscal policy would only have an inflator effect 
b.	The importance of expansionary fiscal and monetary policies during the 1930s aiming at shifting the AD curve out 
c.	The enormous importance of regulating the money supply in the economy at a rate which equals the rate of real growth 
d.	As firms use rational expectation models to determine their investment level, the government will in essence not be able to influence the economy
1
4
According to the supply- side model, a reduction in the tax rate 
a.	None of the below 
b.	Would have no effect on output 
c.	Would have no effect on consumption 
d.	Could reduce the size of any budget deficit 
3
4
The _______ lag for fiscal policy is generally _______ than it is for monetary policy.
a.	Implementation : longer 
b.	Recognition : shorter 
c.	Recognition : longer 
d.	Implementation : shorter 
0
4
Which of the following would cause the aggregate demand curve to shift to the right?
a.	An increase in purchases by the federal government 
b.	An increase in real interest rates 
c.	An appreciation of the American dollar 
d.	A decrease in the money supply 
0
5
Which of the following statements is true about the national debt?
a.	In total, it is higher now than it has ever been 
b.	Most of it is owned by the federal government to foreigners 
c.	It means that a tremendous burden is being passed to our children 
d.	Because of it, the United States is on the verge of bankruptcy 
e.	All of the above 
0
4
The demand for money will fall if 
a.	Real GDP rises 
b.	Real interest rates rise 
c.	The GDP Deflator rises 
d.	People expect deflation soon 
1
4
If the actual unemployment rate is below the natural rate of unemployment, it would be expected that
a.	The rate of inflation would increase 
b.	Wages would fall 
c.	The Phillip’s curve would shift to the left 
d.	The natural rate of unemployment would fall 
0
